But the point I was going to make that I wanted to
come back to was prior to 1980
and in the Institute for Solid State Electronics,
on more than one occasion, I had been approached by
industry or individuals starting a business to do
work, to fund work, development work at Texas A&M
in our Institute for Solid State Electronics.
And of course, I'd already gotten several patents
myself at Texas Instruments, and then again in the
work Jack and I was doing together on the solar
cell. And the difference between the industrial
world and the agricultural world, as my old friend
Neville Clark used to say, who was director of the
Aggie Transfer Station while I was the
engineering, he said, you know, technology
transfer in the farming business is you pick up the
phone and call your neighbor and tell him you've
got a sack of the new hybrid corn out on the porch,
come by and get a cup full.
And TI doesn't call up Motorola and tell them
they've got a new circuit design, come by and make a
copy. And I had argued as a faculty member in the
late 70s that we had to get an intellectual
property policy. And Fred Bitson and said, we're a
publicly funded institution, and whatever we do
is owned by all the people, and we give it away. And I
said, hell, you can't give it away. Nobody will
take it. Nobody's going to put the extra resources
into it that have to be. If it's public, that's
right. If they can't own it. That's right. You
can't give it. You can sell it to TI, but you cannot
give it to them. And I couldn't argue that point. As
a faculty member, I couldn't get enough
attention. But when I became the director of the
Engineering Experiment Station, I was a member of
the Executive Committee. I ran a state agency. I
had resources. And I couldn't argue the point at
the Executive Committee level. The board
understood it implicitly
and pushed for it. And the chancellor formed a team
to review and study it and put forth a
recommendation, and we did. In those days, I got to
chair a lot of fun stuff. I got to chair the research
park committee, the airport committee. It
was an interesting period for me. And the
recommendation was to do it. Texas A&M wouldn't
put any money in it, and the Ag Experiment Station
wouldn't put any money in it. The system argued
they didn't have any money, so I funded the whole
thing myself. Did you? I did it. Hired the first guy
in the Experiment Station, and got a policy that we
would split 50-50 with any researcher, whatever
we got out of it. And when we negotiated the first
royalty for a million dollars, out of the
development in the Food Protein R&D Center, Ed
Lucis' operation, when they came up with a
technique for taking the soy taste out of soybean
oil. And we licensed that to a Japanese company for
$1 million to be paid $100,000 a year over 10 years.
And I got the first $100,000 check and cut a $50,000
check to these three guys over in the Food Protein
R&D Center. It was interesting the stimulus that
was for all the new patent applications. And it was
also interesting the impact that had within the
system, because shortly thereafter it was
decided that we needed to move this office over to
the system. It was done. And I was pleased, but I
never got paid back. The university and the
experience station all agreed they owed me money.
But
to my knowledge, I put way over $150,000 of the
Engineering Experiment Station's money on
behalf of the A&M system with prorated parts to be
paid by different system parts. I don't know
what's ever happened to that, but I know the
history well because I did it. And I had to do it. I
just had to do it. But I knew it had to be done. You
know, to create a property right. Sure. If you're
ever going to link, and the nation is going to get
any opportunity for the academic and industrial
community to learn how to work together, the
academic community had to mature to the point of
being able to say, yes, we own this property, yes,
we can license it to you, and yes, we will work with
you to make money off of it for yourself. And that
that'll Pay some of the mothers and daddies in a job
that you give them whose children are likely to
come back to this institution. And while that may
not be uniformly equal, if we tried the other way,
as Fred used to argue about a lot of other things,
we'd reach uniform mediocrity. So at any rate, I go
back to that point because it's relevant to the
Hark story.
And we can come to that in a minute, but I'll try to
focus on that. And the relevancy and the
importance and the difference between HARC and,
say, the Texas A&M System or the Engineering
Experiment Station as an agency of the state
operating in the A&M System, trying to
effectively link the private sector with the
academic sector is the bureaucracy and
constraint of a publicly funded institution over
a private one, which is New York. And when you look
around the country, and I began to do that, as I
began to think how, OK, I've got this
responsibility as a CEO of a state agency to turn
this agency into an effective way to help the state
of Texas support its industry. like the
agricultural experiment station, has helped its
farmers. I'm supposed to be helping the TIs and
the... But you have a whole different
constituency out there. Oh, and a very different
philosophy. And if you try other than the generic
one to say the engineering experiment station
should be helping industry as the agricultural
experiment station helped the agribusiness
industry, or the farmers more specifically, the
analogy breaks down. Very fast. And
when you look around the country, as I was going to
say, and you look at Silicon Valley and Menlo Park,
you find Stanford and SRI. And Stanford's
private, and SRI's private. Stanford Research
Institute are now SRI International. But it's
kind of the link. to do research of relevance to
industry that drew on the talent at Stanford,
which was SRI. But industry went to SRI, not to
Stanford.
And when you look at Route 128 in the Boston
miracle, you find Harvard and MIT private. When
you go to the Research Triangle Park, you find Duke
and the Research Triangle Institute private now
you find North Carolina North Carolina State
which are public and also a member of the Research
Triangle Institute but this theme of private
institutions is too consistent to ignore
particularly when you're running an agency in the
state like Texas dealing with the Bubba's in
Austin so you had to come keenly aware of this Yeah,
the difference. Character. That's right. And I
had become keenly aware. I had been forced to
become keenly aware, asking myself, can it be this
tough for all these other areas that are doing it,
that I've got all of this politics to fight
through? And why do I have all of this politics?
Well, I had all of this politics to fight through
because this state, Achilles' heel of our
education, is you buy your seat. on a board of
higher education. It's who gives the governor,
the winning governor, the most money. And the
greatest prize or seats on UT Austin and Texas A&M,
those are the two most coveted ones. And we
occasionally get very talented members. But
that's an accident,
not a cause. And see, I've gone beyond the
knee-jerk fear of even putting this on tape,
Henry. This is so important to the state's future
that it needs to be said. The fact that when I
started reporting to Texas A&M Board of Regents,
one of them had an eighth-grade education and
really got my attention. And I wondered,
wonderful guy, good old rancher from Uvalde, but
hell, he was a big old hunting and fishing buddy
with Dolph Briscoe, and he just gave old Dolph a lot
of money and got him elected, and Dolph Asking what
he wanted, he told him, and hell, he gave it to him.
He didn't have any business being on Texas A&M
before. I mean, he loved us a lot, and he showed up to
meetings, and he was a wonderful guy. But how can
you be on the board of anything if you don't
understand their product? I mean, it's a
travesty. So we've got some excellent board
members in this state on our boards. But I
handpicked the one at ARC. I didn't check with the
governor. And it didn't have anything to do with
who they were for or against. It had to do with who
they are, what they know, and what they produced.
It's a very different approach and much more
relevant, I think, to building the kind of
institution that can serve. And I think that
that's probably the single most distinguishing
thing between A private university or
institution and a public one is the way the board
selected.
Next, and maybe of equal importance, is the public
perception of the use of public funds. Tax
dollars. It's different to go out for Rice
University to go out and ask for money to run the
institution. and have people give it to you than it
is just to tax the citizens and then allocate it to
the public institution. There's a different
level of accountability that's implied in that. I
think that's one of the reasons that an
institution like Texas A&M for so long, even in
defiance of logic, it's such a powerful thing.
It's kind of like Galileo had the telescope for six
months before he even thought about looking at the
heavens with it. It was the province of the church.
I mean, he was using it as a navigational tool. And
then one day he looked up and saw a star and said,
gee, this is exciting. So there's a built-in
inflexibility. Yeah, there's a built-in
perceptional thing that you can't go through that
barrier. I mean, that's everybody. So whatever
you develop here, you give it to everybody when you
can't. But you still keep thinking that you ought
to be able to do that somehow when it's impossible.
That's not the culture of the grand process. So all
of that was beginning to sink in in my experience
base of being challenged to run a state agency that
was challenged to provide this link. And my own
experience as a professor and my own experience as
an industrialist and my growing experience as an
industrialist, as a member of the board of a high
technology company, as a member of the research
staff of a major corporation like Texas
Instruments. So, PARC was created in 1983,
roughly, on paper. Where? Who? That was done on the
initiative of George Mitchell.
And George Mitchell contacts who? Okay.
Or did someone contact George Mitchell? No, I
think this was George's own self-initiative. And
George has launched the real estate development
of the Woodlands,
which I believe was done about 15 years ago now,
maybe 16.
So
George launched the Woodlands in 69,
71, whatever. And
most of what I'll say now is my impressions of what
was happening as opposed to specific historical
documentation. This is kind of images. based upon
untold hours of George and I talking and hearing
one another talk.
You know, I think if we were doing this parallel
kind of path, what I've just told you about my own
experience, if we backed up In the 70s and tried to
ask the question, now what's George learning out
there? And where is he going? And how did what he was
doing and what I was doing cause these curves to
cross? It's kind of the way I see this. Because when
Matt and George's curves crossed,
vis-a-vis Hark at least, now we crossed to know one
another prior to Hark. And that was because George
was an Aggie. or is an Aggie, and he was asked to
chair the Target 2000 project. That's where you
first encountered Mitchell? That's right. And
Target 2000 was A&M's effort to follow the
governor, then Governor Clements' lead in Texas
2000, which had been a state study on the future of
Texas. And so following that, A&M launched Target
2000.
all of the issues that i've just reviewed with you
from my personal perspective of what was going on
with skip porter back in those days uh you know
that's just one one man's view and uh you could get
this from several people that were watching what i
was doing who would tell you a completely
antithetical story of what i've just said because
what they were seeing me do had no resemblance at
all to what i just told you i was doing well no i think
i am aware of both Several images. Yeah, yeah. But
yours is the first time I've heard that statement.
Yeah. And
because what, in my judgment, and by my firsthand
measure, by the fall of 1984, the
success or failure of what I had turned the Texas
Engineering Experiment Station into, depending
upon who you talk to. I mean, in my judgment, I had
done what I had been asked to do by the board and the
chancellor, at least initially. As those people
changed, particularly the chancellor and not so
much the board, but
I think they, at that point in time, had maybe
wished I hadn't been asked to do what I was doing.
There
was one little point I was going to try to make in
there that escaped me now. We
were talking about TARC 2000.
all of this different perception of what in the
hell is going on with this A&M system. I mean, gee,
should we move all these agencies back over under
the university? Gee, should we have one guru dude
that could somehow keep all of this patched
together in some magical way? And we went through
vice president of agriculture and vice president
of engineering for a while. Then we went to Deputy
Chancellor of Agriculture and Deputy Chancellor
of Engineering, and then we went... I mean, we were
trying Management 101 every other month up there.
It was a joke. It was really boring to be in that, to
have responsibility when...
outside of all of that concern... You know, it was a
neat, clean world. Oh, God. It was so... I mean, we
fumbled the ball... Texas A&M could have captured
the intellectual leadership in the state of Texas
in five years in 1980. It made two, which I'm not
going to talk about, bad calls back to back. It
killed it. And it was hard to overcome that. I don't
think it has yet. And subsequently. one to that
I've quit watching it because it's too painful.
It's amazing the resiliency of an institution
that continues to do unusually amazingly well.
It's hard to kill a good place. It is a good place.
But it's always sad to be close when you knew it
could have been so much better. But anyway, that
was part of it. But this was really a tumultuous
time. I don't know, you'd have to ask George his
perception of what he learned about the
institution and the players, being head of the
entire Target 2000 project. Had he at that time now
become aware of the operations and the character
of teams while he was on to Target 2000? Oh, I think
so. I think he became aware during the Target 2000
study. OK.
But HARC already, by 83 or whatever, exists? Yeah,
on paper it exists. On paper? Yeah. It's a legal
entity. It does not do anything. But it has
actually been created as a legal entity? Oh, yes.
Yes. Has it worked? Do you remember that? No, I
don't. But it's around somewhere. It may have even
been as early as late 82 sometime. But I think it was
in 83. So it's sitting here, then? Oh, yeah. It
exists. It's a created institution. has bylaws,
has a board, but has nobody to run it. And I'm
approached by Arthur D. Little, the consulting
firm which George hired, to do a study of how other
regions had evolved and developed in economic
diversification. And they studied them. They
studied the entry in the Illinois Institute of
Technology in the Illinois area, they studied
Route 128, they studied Silicon Valley, they
studied Research Triangle Park. And I think
George decided that the best model that he saw out
of all of that for Houston and for Texas would be the
Research Triangle Park. And that if Houston could
take the lead in pulling together- Do you know why
he decided that? No. I don't know if it was the
relative
level of growth of unrelated industries. I'm
guessing now, absolutely guessing. George and I
never specifically talked about, I've heard him
say that in conversation to others several times.
So I know there's been a mix of the institution
because the diverse Well, I think I think in the
invitation of particularly initially, Rice was
the Duke and UH and Texas A&M were the North
Carolina North Carolina State, so to speak, of the
Research Triangle Institute, but it may also have
been George is pretty deep thinker. He doesn't
come to a decision casually or without insight.
One of the brightest guys I've ever met. And he, it
may well be, and I'm trying to ask myself that
question now, trying to think of it as I'm sure
George would analyze it at that time. Texas is
strong in energy, and North Carolina is strong in
textiles. Kind of one major horse driving, yet the
strength, of already existing spot-off
industries may have also been similarly weak. I
don't know. Maybe it was because they both had a lot
of pound trees.
But at any rate, Arthur
D. Little goes then to the institutions to inquire
if they would be willing to participate.
Duke, North Carolina, and North Carolina State
had done with RTI in the, in HARC, which was then
called the Houston Area Research Center, now
Houston Advanced Research Center. And so I was
interviewed. And Little was coming to you, and
then basically you had to invite participation.
Well, to get my opinion. Oh, okay. As a key person at
Texas A&M, as to whether or not I think this makes
sense or not, and several of us on Texas A&M's
campus, as I'm sure on the other campuses were
interviewed, what would you think about? They had
a neat little list of questions prepared that I was
asking. John Calhoun was asked, and others.
Meanwhile, about the same time now, Calhoun, I
assume, and Winnarty are... Doing the medical,
beginning to get involved in the medical? Well,
Winarty's already down. He's already down. Yeah,
well, or he's at, Winarty at that point in time is
with Gulf. Okay. He's with Gulf Research. Okay.
Calhoun is still at A&M, and he's the vice
president for engineering, matter of fact. Okay.
I'll lose track of who was in what position when,
but for a while Calhoun took over from Fred Benson
as the Vice President and Deputy Chancellor of
Engineering.
But I'm asked to give recommendations to the A&M
Board of Regents as to whether or not A&M ought to
affiliate with PARCC.
And I can see some real potential benefit. And I can
see opportunities for conflict or competitive,
even potentially negative competitive, if HAARC
doesn't perceive its collaborative role to
enhance and support. But my final analysis is that
because at that point in time, for example, The
engineering experiment station had
responsibility for delivering all computing
services to the A&M system. Remember the data
processing center was a part of TEAS? Yeah.
And I was put in charge again of the computer
committee to advise the system on what computer
acquisitions for the future we should be making.
And the issue of should we have a supercomputer?
Should we have another central processor or
should we have distributed computing? I mean, I'd
waded through that. Old Mac Prescott was on the
committee, and Neville Clark, and I forget who
else. But I got the black bean again to chair that
baby. As I say, I had a lot of interesting
responsibilities during those times. And, well,
there was no way we could justify spending $10
million or so on a supercomputer. There was no way
any university in the state could justify doing
that. unless you just wanted to buy $10 million
worth of image to say you had one. There's nothing
easier to share than a computer. And anybody
that's ever had to operate one knows you don't want
to. Let somebody else operate it. You'd be a user.
And then you can complain why it doesn't work. So
one of the things I suggested straight away is that
Hark should go after a supercomputer and network
it into all the collaborative universities. And
the university should look to HARC and support
HARC as the place for major, unusual computing
resources to be provided to it. And you're
thinking this primarily as director of TEAS? Yes.
And as being in charge, basically, of the future
computer needs and so forth of the university? You
bet. That's right. And I'm thinking of it also.
When you say director of TEAS, remember, I've
learned to look at that as a state agency. And while
it's located on Texas A&M's campus,
well, it's an agency that serves the state, not
just College Station. And that's something I'm
sure the university had very great difficulty.
Oh, big time. I had more trouble with the Aggies
than I had with anybody else on that point, because
all of those resources of that agency of the state
They had been so long used to using them as they
wanted to, particularly the College of
Engineering. Just the College of Engineering.
And with the College of Education and the College
of Business and the College of Veterinary
Medicine. When we started opening up these other
divisions, which globally expanded the research
capability. You're going to talk to Bill Mobley
today about the value that was to
you. You'll hear it. And that's where that college
learned how to be competitive outside on the
street with writing proposals. That's when we
created Invent, the Institute for Ventures in New
Technology, which you go talk to the students in
the MBA program at Texas A&M, was far more valuable
and exciting to them than any course they ever
took.
But that was not happily received. It was a
delusion. I was spending, quote, Aggie money with
the Longhorns or with the Lamar guys or with UT
Arlington. And it was just this little narratini
view of all the world was centered in College
Station. It was hard to overcome. It still is. It's
a big-time syndrome. It's true on most campuses.
Yeah, it is. It's true on most individual
professors. I mean, you don't really care what
happens at all. It's what's in your lab. in your
life, in your profession. And so
I think that's important to understand from my
personal perspective, to the extent that that's
interesting in the history of the Woodlands at
heart, is that I was committed intuitively as an
individual, and maybe unusually, from the time I
came to Texas A&M. I mean, when I came to Texas A&M in
68, I was in an unusual position at Texas
Instruments. I met every week with Fred Busey, the
president of Texas Instruments, because the
project that I was developing there was so
important to Texas Instruments. And when I left
and was on Texas A&M's campus, I could pick up the
phone any minute and call the president of TI and
get through. And I did it. And I'd say, Fred, we're
missing a bet here. God, Texas A&M needs TI, and TI
needs Texas A&M, and I see how to put this thing
together. He said, okay, get on back down here. And
he taught all the VPs together, and I'd go to
Dallas, and everybody would agree it's
wonderful, and I'd walk out of there, and
everybody else would go back to doing what they had
to get done. It's hard to make this work. This is not
easy. But T's got started on that, but it created
enough of a local whirlwind that it really made it
just, I mean, life's too short. So I was kind of
getting to that point where, you know, I had kind of
two choices on a personal level. I could either toe
off and win or real bloody win. And I was real
confident that that's the way to work out. Or I
could just say, hey, you've got too much respect
for the institution and all of what could happen.
And there's too much opportunity in your life of
positivism. Sure. Why do all this negative stuff
and end up doing damage to what you've loved and
worked for? Just walk away and let everybody else
take off with it and see what happens. Maybe
they're right and you're wrong. Just go do your
other thing. So that's kind of where I finally came
out. OK. So the concept is here. Little has
approached you. You've approached the board.
suggesting involvement, participation. Yes, I
supported the idea long before I met George
Mitchell. I didn't know who he was. That's good.
But
it was easy for me to do that because that was
philosophically the plane I was trying to get A&M
on and learn more about myself. This was a risk I
believed as a nation we had to be taking. I could
feel this from just intuitively out on the street
in Oregon and in Dallas and in College Station and
in New York City and wherever else it was, I was
going professionally and I was seeing the number
of Japanese people showing up and presenting
electronics papers. I just knew we had to start
doing some things differently and take the risk of
doing that. And I believed intuitively of the
value of winking. I call them the three separate
societies in our single one, government,
industry, and academia. They just don't talk to
one another, and they don't understand the
culture, and their cultures are very different.
NASA has the same problem. Well, they're part of
the government. That's right. Yeah. And they're
trying to establish those same linkages. Yes,
right. And this institution can help much better
than a publicly funded research university. And
it will, and it is. And I hope it will. That's my
goal. So, go ahead. At what point now were you
approached to come to HAARP? Okay. Well, in 1980,
late 83 or early 84, probably late 83. Well, HAARP
was born in 83, let's say. And John Calhoun served
on the executive committee of HARC's board of
directors as the A&M representative.
Each of the founding universities had four
members on HARC's board, and one of those members
served on the executive committee, which George
Mitchell chaired.
But that was all that ever happened, to my
knowledge. the executive committee would meet. I
don't think the full board ever did. And the
executive committee would just kind of get and
say, well, what do you guys think we could do to get
HARC started? What would be a good project? Well,
I'm not sure of the transition. We'd have to go back
to the records to find this. But it was after Frank
Vandiver had become president of Texas A&M and
after John Calhoun retired, Frank called me and
asked me to represent Texas A&M on Hark's board and
be on the executive committee. Because Hark's
bylaws call for the presidents of those
universities to appoint those people.
And that's
when I met George Mitchell.
Where exactly the target 2000 study is at that
point in time, and where and how George and I may
have or may not have interacted back on Texas A&M's
campus, I don't know exactly. But I came to know
George consciously that he was a Texas A&M
graduate, that he was a guy living in Houston, and
he was in the oil and gas business. And that when he
was asked, to chair the Target 2000. That's how I
met him. I went to one of our organizational
meetings and I met George Mitchell. I had no idea
that he was the forces behind HARC or that he had a
real estate project called the Woodlands or
anything else. And how, what he learned about me
during that process and who I was and what the
engineering experimentation was doing and
anything else, I have no idea. Vandiver appointed
you to the board as a representative of Texas A&M. I
might argue you wouldn't slight lead if we picked
up this morning. In fact, Vandiver apparently had
some pretty close association with Roger
Gallagher's Gladys. That could have been part of
it. Could be, yeah. Well, I don't think so, because
Roger's joined this company since I've been here.
Part of that, he was with Exxon and Prince. 79. He
said he joined in 79. Did he? Yeah. Ah, okay. Well,
he's become president since I've been here. He
became president in 86. Yeah, okay. I know he
became president since I've been here, but he's
with the company. Okay. Yeah, that's
interesting, yeah. Well, okay.
So I start coming on A&M's behalf,
to the executive committee of the HART board.
So Frank has really asked me to represent Texas A&M
in an official capacity.
I guess with my professorial hat of double E on. I
think it's in a way that's an odd, where you're the
director of TEAS, a state agency. Yeah, but I was
also a professor of engineering. But that, again,
is the kind of murky lines of, plus Frank and I knew
one another well. Of course, we served on the
system executive committee together. And
there's nothing that any one of those entities
does that doesn't have some relationship and
impact on the other. And so I was pleased to do that.
Told Frank I'd be happy to do it. I really didn't
know what it involved or entailed. I knew about
HARC because I had been inquired and interviewed
by Arthur
Little. So I put forth the idea of the
supercomputer at a board meeting. George had
brought in or I guess the executive committee of
the board had concurred to hire a guy named Harvey
McMains, who worked with
George Kosmetsky at the Institute for
Constructive Capitalism, IC Squared, at UT
Austin. And Harvey came here on, I think, a
halftime basis to be the interim president of
HARC.
And so Harvey would sit in on these meetings.
So a team was organized,
pulling together some of the professors from
various institutions. I think the lead came out of
the University of Houston to go after one of the NSF
centers for supercomputing. And that proposal
was written and submitted in 84. Also, in
late... Excuse me, that's an NSF application. Did
you say NSF? Yes, National Science Foundation.
And it basically is sort of a cooperative
application between universities centered
through Hartz and Minsky applications. That's
right. And these are members of a collegial or
whatever association. That's right, yeah. So the
proposal... NSF had announced they were going to
establish four national supercomputer centers.
And so our proposal was that one of those be here at
HARC, which would link the collaborative
institutions and serve all these different
research universities.
And I'll come back to that in a second, if you like.
But we ranked in the top eight. four there were
eight picked as finalists and then four of those
eight were funded and we were not one of those and so
when i came here in january of 1985 as hark's first
full-time president or first president i guess i
should say
one of my first moves was to go to nsf and find out why
we didn't win and to see what it would take in order
to come after such a designation in the future, and
learned that that was not likely to happen. There
were not going to be those resources. And so we went
after bringing the supercomputer in here on our
own initiative, working with the private sector.
And we're successful at doing it, as you know. Why
didn't Art get that? the first initiative? What'd
you find out? I really have to go back and review
that. It's been too long since I've asked the
question.
Technical, mechanical, philosophical? Well, it
wasn't so glaring that I remember it six years
later. It was competition, and We were
complimented. We had a good proposal, a
competitive proposal. We just got beat. You can
get beat for a lot of reasons.
That follows into a lot of interesting stuff that
will be interesting in the history of the park, I
think, but not so much the history of the
woodlands.
But also, I still haven't gotten you here yet.
You're in 1980, but who hired you? The board of
Hark. Who made that contact, direct contact?
George Mitchell.
And I'll tell you the details of that, but I want to
get this other thought in while I've got it. In 83,
while I'm still the director of the engineering
experiment station, the idea for the
superconducting supercollider surfaces, the
SSC, And it surfaces on A&M's campus in a guy named
Peter McIntyre. And Peter goes to see Frank
Vandiver, president of Texas A&M, and describes
this mystical, magical, giant federal project.
And Frank says, Peter, that sounds exciting, but
that's a big deal. Go see Porter.
So he comes to see me. And I listened. And
McIntyre's kind of a guy that you can't not listen
to. And I
listened long enough to gain enough insight to
realize that this project was of a scope and a
dimension that it was unlikely the state of Texas
could play. The whole state. It was certainly
impossible for Texas A&M,
the entire system, certainly not Texas A&M
University, but if we pulled everything the A&M
system had, we weren't even close. I mean, we
weren't even close. And the thought of Hark hit me.
If the state of Texas wanted to line up and try to
compete in that league, in the intellectual
business of big science, Park was the only chance
it had that it would take pooling the best minds of
our four largest research institutions with the
structure of a new institution designed to do this
kind of thing. So at a sequence of events, I told
Peter he ought to go meet George Mitchell. who was
chairman of the board of a new institution called
HARC. And this began to get enough visibility on
A&M campus that it began to make a lot of people
nervous. Art Hanson was getting nervous. Perry
Atkinson was getting nervous. Frank Vandiver was
getting nervous. And we were spending a lot of time
at the executive committee level of the system
talking about this project. Did McIntyre go to see
Mitchell? Yes, he did. And he took Sheldon Glashow
with him, the Nobel laureate from Harvard, with a
lot of preposterous proposals, thinking it would
apply to the flamboyant, big scope nature of Texas
and big oil, talking about the Texatron, and
they'd use this to find all bio-absorbent
neutrinos in the earth and a bunch of stuff like
that, which George, of course, saw through. But
intellectually, the project was interesting.
I finally became convinced that Peter McIntyre
had enough energy
and interest and commitment to this that it might
be possible that they could pull a team together.
So I brought the idea as the executive committee
member of HARC's board representing Texas A&M. I
committed A&M
in toto that if HARC wanted to run with this, we'd
back their play. That got it off of our campus, got
us out of the lead hot seat, which everybody was big
time nervous about, and put it in an institution
that had some chance of leading and pulling
together all the other talent that would have to
come from Bryce and UT Austin and U of H, plus all
that would have to be hired and have some entity
that could nurture and manage it to get us
competitive. And George liked that.
It was the second project. So we had the second. Why
do you think Mitchell liked that? George is an
intellectual. I think it also maybe appealed to
his sense of the private, and that's been a
persistent theme also. The mixture, like you were
talking about, of the academic world. Yeah. And it
also was big enough to be meaningful.
And that's beyond Woodland's, though. I mean,
that's not Woodland's thought and mentality. No,
I don't think so. I mean, I agree with that. but if it
if it happens in the woodlands that's that's good
sure yeah and uh you know uh that's good pr yeah and
uh and that's good visibility and and george
doesn't miss many of those licks either that's
what i'm trying to get he's a marketing man
obviously but there are incentives and uh motives
here that go far beyond you know the woodlands
that's part of what i yes and uh